As you already know, capitalizing
is about moving cash flows, charges,
payments, etc., to a future
moment.
It allows us to calculate future value.
Well, what we’re going to do is deepen
into the two types of capitalization,
which is simple or composite
capitalization, which is the same
as talking about simple interest
or applying a composite
interest.
And we will do it by putting ourselves
in a hypothetical case, because it will
help us to understand it better.
We will think that we are making
an investment of one million euros
today, that is, the present value
is one million euros.
We think that the interest rate
is 10% and the N, or the number
of periods, we will fix
it at 3.
In this case, we want to calculate
the final value of our
investment.
But we’ll do it using simple
capitalization and using composite
capitalization to see
what happens.
Let’s start with simple capitalization.
In order to understand the
simple capitalization, the interest
rate or interest is calculated,
it is always generated
on the initial capital, in
our case on the million euros.
What is what happens?
As we invested one million euros, the
first year we generate 100,000 euros
of interest, the second year
another 100,000 and the third
year another 100,000.
The final value of our investment
is 1.3, 1.300.000 euros.
It is very easy.
If you see it in the formula, it’
s just as easy.
The future value in this case is
equal to the present value, which
is one million euros as we have
seen, by 1, we multiply it by
a capitalization factor.
In this case, the capitalization
factor is equal to 1 plus the
interest rate, i.e. 1 to 1,
by the number of periods.
Every year we are generating 100,000
euros, multiplying it by 3, at
the end we add it to the present
value and we have the final value.
explained in another way.
This is simple capitalization.
It is very simple.
Now we go to the composite capitalization.
The difference between compound capitalization
and simple capitalization
is that we will apply the interest
rate.
Remember, in the simple we always
applied the interest rate on
the million euros, on the initial
capital.
We will not do it this way here.
Look how we will do it.
We have a million euros and we will calculate
what the final value is in the
first year.
It is 1.1, and we have applied the
interest rate.
This year, from year 1 to
year 2, interest is generated
again.
But we will not apply interest
on the million euros, but on
the million euros plus the
interest of the venges until
then.
We will multiply 1.1, in this case
by 1.1 again and the final value
in year 2 is 1.21.
If we go to the year 3, we
have to multiply it by 1.
And at the end, look, the final value comes
out to us 1.46, which is much higher
than 1.3 that we saw in
simple capitalization.
It is logical because you
are calculating, you are applying
interest every time on a larger
amount, it is accumulating, it is
exponential.
In the formula, what we can
do is compare the formulas.
The formula, if we talk about
simple capitalization, the future
value is equal to the present
value, which in this case was one
million euros, multiplied by a capitalization
factor that is 1 plus the interest
rate by the number
of periods.
If we go to composite capitalization,
the difference is that this capitalization
factor will not be multiplied
by the number of periods, but
will be elevated to the number
of periods.
Why is?
As we were seeing,
it is accumulating.